.TH SLURM\-CLI 1 "2026-05-05" "slurm-cli 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.
.SH NAME
slurm\-cli \- unified CLI for Slurm cluster management
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B slurm\-cli
[\fIGLOBAL OPTIONS\fR]
.I COMMAND
[\fICOMMAND OPTIONS\fR]
[\fIARGS\fR]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B slurm\-cli
wraps SLURM commands (\fBscontrol\fR, \fBsacctmgr\fR, \fBsqueue\fR, \fBsinfo\fR)
into a single interface with intelligent tab completion, filter expressions,
multiple output formats, and dry-run support.
.br
Original SLURM commands output is cached by default. Commands and resource names support shortest-unique-prefix abbreviation, e.g.
.B sho par
expands to
.BR "show partitions" .
.
.SH AUTO COMPLETION
.B slurm\-cli 
can generate a Bash completion function with the
.B autocomplete
command.  Source the output in your shell rc file to enable it. E.g.
.br
.EX
eval "$(slurm\-cli autocomplete)"
.EE

.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-style " [" pretty | json | csv ]
Output style.  Default: \fBpretty\fR (Rich table).
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-pretty
Shorthand for \fB\-\-style pretty\fR.
.TP
.BR \-j ", " \-\-json
Shorthand for \fB\-\-style json\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-csv
Shorthand for \fB\-\-style csv\fR.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-delimiter " " \fISTR\fR
Field delimiter for CSV output (default: \fB;\fR).
.TP
.BR \-z ", " \-\-zebra
Zebra-striped rows in table output.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force\-update
Bypass the command-output cache and fetch fresh data.
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Skip all confirmation prompts.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Print the Slurm command that would be executed without running it.
Also enabled by setting \fBSLURM_CLI_DRYRUN=y\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-dry\-run
Override \fBSLURM_CLI_DRYRUN\fR and disable dry-run.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-cache\-timeout " " \fISECS\fR
Cache lifetime in seconds (default: 600).
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-profile " " \fINAME\fR
Named output profile loaded from the profiles file (default: \fBdefault\fR).
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-format " " \fISTR\fR
Inline profile string.  Overrides \fB\-\-profile\fR.
Format: \fIresource\fR\fB.columns=\fR\fIcol1\fR,\fIcol2\fR
.TP
.BI \-\-list\-fields[= RESOURCE ]
List available profile fields for all resources, or for \fIRESOURCE\fR only.
.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Resource commands
.TP
.B show
.RI ( get )
List or inspect resources.
.br
Usage: \fBslurm\-cli show\fR \fIRESOURCE\fR [\fIFILTERS\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
Options: \fB\-v\fR (verbose), \fB\-T\fR (tree view), \fB\-L\fR (list fields),
\fB\-\-indent\fR \fISTR\fR.
.TP
.B update
.RI ( edit ", " change ", " modify ", " set )
Modify a resource field.
.br
Usage: \fBslurm\-cli update\fR \fIRESOURCE\fR \fINAME\fR \fIkey\fR=\fIvalue\fR \&...
.TP
.B create
.RI ( new ", " add )
Create a resource.
.br
Usage: \fBslurm\-cli create\fR \fIRESOURCE\fR \fINAME\fR [\fIkey\fR=\fIvalue\fR \&...]
.TP
.B delete
.RI ( remove ", " rm )
Delete a resource.
.br
Usage: \fBslurm\-cli delete\fR \fIRESOURCE\fR \fINAME\fR [\fINAME\fR \&...]
.SS Node commands
.TP
.B drain
.RI ( dr )
Drain nodes.  Accepts node filters or an explicit node list.
.br
Options: \fB\-r\fR/\fB\-\-reason\fR \fISTR\fR, \fB\-\-dry\-run\fR, \fB\-v\fR.
.TP
.B undrain
.RI ( resume )
Undrain / resume nodes.
.TP
.B reboot
.RI ( reb )
Reboot nodes.  Options: \fB\-\-asap\fR, \fB\-\-nextstate\fR, \fB\-\-reason\fR.
.TP
.B cancel\-reboot
Cancel a pending node reboot.
.SS Job commands
.TP
.B hold
.RI ( hol )
Hold jobs (pause scheduling).  Accepts job IDs or filter expressions.
.br
Options: \fB\-r\fR/\fB\-\-reason\fR \fISTR\fR, \fB\-u\fR/\fB\-\-user\fR (user hold).
.TP
.B release
.RI ( rel )
Release held jobs.
.TP
.B top
Move jobs to the front of the queue.
.TP
.B requeue
.RI ( req )
Requeue jobs (restart from beginning).
.TP
.B suspend
.RI ( sus )
Suspend running jobs.
.SS Controller commands
.TP
.B reconfigure
.RI ( confreload )
Force \fBslurmctld\fR to re-read its configuration.
.TP
.B ping
.RI ( pi )
Check whether \fBslurmctld\fR is responding.
.TP
.B takeover
.RI ( tak )
Cause the backup controller to take over as primary.
.TP
.B token
.RI ( tok )
Generate a JWT authentication token.
.br
Options: \fBlifespan=\fR\fITIME\fR, \fBusername=\fR\fINAME\fR.
.TP
.B assoc_mgr
Display \fBslurmctld\fR internal cache for associations, users, and QOS.
.br
Options: \fBusers=\fR, \fBaccounts=\fR, \fBqos=\fR, \fBflags=\fR{users|assoc|qos}.
.SS Debug commands
.TP
.B setdebug
.RI ( sd )
Set the debug level for \fBslurmctld\fR or \fBslurmd\fR.
.TP
.B setdebugflags
.RI ( sdf )
Set or clear debug flags for \fBslurmctld\fR or \fBslurmd\fR.
Each flag must be prefixed with \fB+\fR (enable) or \fB\-\fR (disable).
The optional \fBnodes=\fR argument restricts the change to specific nodes
(nodelist or node filter expression).
See
.B DEBUG FLAGS
below for the list of valid flag names.
.TP
.B schedloglevel
.RI ( sll )
Get or set the scheduler log level.
.SS Informational commands
.TP
.B version
.RI ( ver )
Show the \fBslurm\-cli\fR version and the underlying Slurm version.
.TP
.B topology
Show network topology.
.TP
.B daemons
.RI ( dae )
Show the names of running Slurm daemons.
.TP
.B burstbuffer
.RI ( bb )
Show burst buffer information.
.TP
.B dwstat
Show DataWarp / burst buffer status.
.TP
.B bbstat
.RI ( bbs )
Show burst buffer status.
.TP
.B batch\-script
.RI ( bscript )
Print the batch script for a job.
.br
Usage: \fBslurm\-cli batch\-script\fR \fIJOBID\fR
.TP
.B write\-config
.RI ( wconf )
Write the current Slurm configuration to a file.
.SS Utility commands
.TP
.B autocomplete
Print the Bash autocomplete function (source in your shell rc).
.TP
.B list\-resources
.RI ( ls ", " list )
List all available resource types.
.TP
.B help
Show command help.
.
.SH RESOURCES
Resources are the Slurm object types operated on by \fBshow\fR, \fBupdate\fR,
\fBcreate\fR, and \fBdelete\fR.  Each name supports prefix abbreviation and has
aliases in parentheses.
.PP
.TS
l l.
Resource	Aliases
_
accounts	acc, account
associations	assoc
coordinators	coord
events	event, ev
jobs	job, j
nodes	node
partitions	part, parts
qos	q
reservations	reservation
users	user
.TE
.
.SH FILTERING
Most commands accept filter expressions to select objects instead of providing
explicit names.
.SS Node filters
.TP
.BI partition= NAME
Nodes in the named partition.
.TP
.BI state= STATE
Nodes with the given state (idle, alloc, drain, \&...).
.TP
.BI user= NAME
Nodes running jobs belonging to user \fINAME\fR.
.TP
.BI reservation= NAME
Nodes assigned to the named reservation.
.TP
.BI drainreason= REGEX
Nodes whose drain reason matches \fIREGEX\fR (case-insensitive).
.PP
Prefix any filter with \fBnot:\fR to invert it:
.RS
.B not:state=drain
\(em exclude drained nodes.
.RE
Multiple filters are combined with AND (intersection).
.SS Job filters
.TP
.BI user= NAME ", " account= NAME ", " partition= NAME ", " state= STATE
Standard job attributes.
.TP
.BI name= PAT " / " jobname= REGEX
Job name (literal pattern / case-insensitive regex).
.TP
.BI nodes= NODELIST
Jobs running on the specified nodes.
.TP
.BI reservation= NAME
Jobs using the named reservation.
.PP
Prefix any filter with \fBnot:\fR to exclude matching jobs.
.
.SH OUTPUT FORMATS
.TP
.B pretty
Rich-formatted table (default).
.TP
.B json
JSON array of objects, one per resource.
.TP
.B csv
Delimited values; delimiter set with \fB\-d\fR (default \fB;\fR).
.
.SS Profiles
Profiles define custom output templates for different resource types.
They can be loaded from:
.br
  - /etc/slurm/cli.profiles (system-wide)
.br
  - ~/.config/slurm-cli.profiles (user-specific)
.br
  - CLI option --profile-str (inline)
.br
  - CLI option --profile (named profile from file)
.br
Profile file format:
.EX
[profile:NAME]
# Column-based format (table output)
# Define which fields to show and their sort order (append + or - for ascending/descending)
RESOURCE.columns = col1[+|\-],col2[+|\-],...
RESOURCE.styles.col1 = COLOR STYLE
RESOURCE.styles.col2 = COLOR STYLE
...

# Template-based format (free-form output)
# Use {field} for field values, Rich markup for colors, \\n for newlines
# Use {?field STRING} to conditionally include text only if field is non-empty
RESOURCE.template = TEMPLATE_STRING
.EE

Available colors: black, red, green, yellow, blue, magenta, cyan, white,
bright_black, bright_red, bright_green, bright_yellow, bright_blue, bright_magenta, bright_cyan, bright_white.
If terminal supports 24-bit color, use hex codes: #RRGGBB (e.g. #ff0000 for red).
Available styles: bold, dim, italic, underline, reverse, and combinations (e.g. bold underline).
To set background color, append '\fB on COLOR\fR' (e.g. '\fBred on white\fR').
.P
Example profile file:
.EX
------------------------------------
[profile:compact]
# Column-based format (table output)
accounts.columns = name,description
accounts.styles.name = cyan bold

# Template-based format (free-form output)
accounts.template = [cyan]{name}[/cyan] - {description}
qos.template = [bold]{name}[/bold] Priority: [green]{priority}[/green]
reservations.template = [cyan bold]{name}[/cyan bold]\\n\
    Time: {start_time} -> {end_time}\\n\
    Users: [hot_pink]{users}[/hot_pink]

[profile:emoji]
reservations.template = 📅 [cyan]{name}[/cyan] | {start_time} - {end_time}{?users  | 👥 [hot_pink]{users}[/hot_pink]}{?accounts  | 🏢 {accounts}}
------------------------------------
.EE

.P
Template syntax:
.EX
  - {field_name} - replaced with field value
  - [color]text[/color] - Rich markup for styling
  - \\n - newline (separates records visually)
.EE
.P
Profiles control which columns appear and how they are styled in
\fBpretty\fR output.  Profile files are loaded from
.B /etc/slurm/cli.profiles
or
.BR ~/.config/slurm\-cli.profiles .
Use \fB\-P\fR to select a named profile or \fB\-o\fR for an inline spec.
.PP
Column sort order: append \fB+\fR (ascending) or \fB\-\fR (descending) to a
field name:
.RS
.B slurm\-cli show jobs \-o 'job_id\-,user_name,job_state'
.RE
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SLURM_CLI_DRYRUN
Set to \fBy\fR to enable dry-run mode globally.  Override with
\fB\-\-no\-dry\-run\fR.
.TP
.B SLURM_CLI_NO_CACHE_UPDATE
Set to \fB1\fR to disable automatic cache refresh.
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/slurm/cli.profiles
System-wide output profiles.
.TP
.B ~/.config/slurm\-cli.profiles
Per-user output profiles (takes precedence over system file).
.TP
.B slurm\-cli.profiles.example
Example profile file included in the distribution.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
Show all partitions:
.RS
.B slurm\-cli show partitions
.RE
.PP
Show jobs for a user in JSON:
.RS
.B slurm\-cli \-j show jobs user=alice
.RE
.PP
Drain all GPU nodes with a reason (dry-run first):
.RS
.B slurm\-cli \-\-dry\-run drain partition=gpu \-r "maintenance"
.br
.B slurm\-cli drain partition=gpu \-r "maintenance"
.RE
.PP
Undrain nodes whose reason matches a pattern:
.RS
.B slurm\-cli undrain drainreason="temp.*"
.RE
.PP
Hold all pending jobs except the admin's:
.RS
.B slurm\-cli hold state=pending not:user=admin
.RE
.PP
Cancel all pending jobs for a user:
.RS
.B slurm\-cli delete jobs user=bob state=pending
.RE
.PP
Update a partition's max wall time:
.RS
.B slurm\-cli update partitions gpu maxtime=24:00:00
.RE
.PP
Add nodes to a partition:
.RS
.B slurm\-cli update partitions gpu nodes+=node[001\-004]
.RE
.PP
Create a user with account and QoS:
.RS
.B slurm\-cli create users alice account=research qos=normal
.RE
.PP
Enable tab completion in Bash:
.RS
.B source <(slurm\-cli autocomplete)
.RE
.PP
List available fields for jobs:
.RS
.B slurm\-cli \-\-list\-fields=jobs
.RE
.
.SH DEBUG FLAGS
Valid flag names for the
.B setdebugflags
command.  Prefix each with \fB+\fR to enable or \fB\-\fR to disable.
.PP
.TS
l l l l.
Accrue	Agent	AuditRPCs	Backfill
BackfillMap	BurstBuffer	Cgroup	CPU_Bind
CpuFrequency	Data	DBD_Agent	Dependency
Elasticsearch	Energy	Federation	FrontEnd
Gang	GLOB_SILENCE	Gres	Hetjob
JobAccountGather	JobComp	JobContainer	License
Network	NetworkRaw	NO_CONF_HASH	NodeFeatures
Power	Priority	Profile	Protocol
Reservation	Route	Script	SelectType
Steps	Switch	TLS	TraceJobs
Triggers	WorkQueue
.TE
.PP
Example \(em enable Backfill and Agent tracing on all nodes:
.RS
.B slurm\-cli setdebugflags +Backfill +Agent
.RE
Example \(em disable Backfill on GPU nodes only:
.RS
.B slurm\-cli setdebugflags \-Backfill nodes=partition=gpu
.RE
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR scontrol (1),
.BR sacctmgr (1),
.BR squeue (1),
.BR sinfo (1),
.BR scancel (1)
.
.SH AUTHORS
Sergey Zhumatiy <szhumatiy@gmail.com>
